HI this is shantanu dash
[1:15 PM, 9/27/2018] Shantanu Dash: Paathsala

About us:-
Paathsala is an educational website which promotes "Learning on the go." Our belief is that no matter where you are learning should never be stopped. Students tend to face issues of not being able to attend the classroom studies, not able to get some idea about semesters often, but you have a solution in your hand now. We provide the best notes for engineering students of all branches along with the model questions those are appeared in the previous semesters. 

Are you interested in making your aptitude and reasoning skills stronger? ~ no worries we got that covered for you. Various set of questions have been provided in our question bank for practicing along with the solutions. 

Got any doubts?? ~ Ask in our forum from your registered email id where all the students and teachers are connected and get answered within a short span of time. 

Missed a class??~ We've also got a video section for you where you can search the topic name and find various videos of that topic from our highly skilled teachers. Stream it on your devices and enjoy our best contents without breaking a sweat. 

We understand it's so intimidating to study all the time. So we've introduced another exemplary feature where you can learn while having fun. The typing master game helps you in typing through keyboard impeccably and at the mean time you'll be having fun and competing with your friends to beat the high score. Keep scoring to stay on the top of the leaderboard. 

Got an interest of reading novels??~ we've also got a section for novel lovers. We understand reading novels will help you to develop some creative ideas in you and for that we've a section of novels which contains 500+ novels for you to study and fullfill your fantasy. 

Apart from these things we offer you a set of ideas regarding the project irrespective of any branches. It's inevitable that the project has to be submitted, but the main problems that most of the students face are something like the followings:- 
~What topic should I choose? 
~Where should I start from?
~Where can I find my resources? 
~Which language will make the project efficient?
~What codes should I use?
~What should be the format? 

These are the problems which most of the students face while making a project. But nothing to worry about this. We got it all done for you. In our project section you can find some Innovative ideas and their source code as well. The codes are intuitive and descriptive too. This will help you as a guide throughout the project. 

A good student is not him who scores only in academics , but also must be having some general knowledge too. So we are organising a G.K. competition online to test the knowledge and IQ of a student. Basing on the result the students may improve themselves. 

Apart from that we will be introducing some new and cool features in our website by some surveys in our forum. You are welcome to say if there are some changes which you want to see in the coming update and whether you like to use our service or not. 

We believe that if the morning goes by awesome,then there are 90% chances of passing the day by some great enthusiasm. Do check it out everyday. Stay motivated with our daily motivational quotes and stories. 

Come; Join us, we will create a better tomorrow together. Join your own Paathsala. 

Experience the expertise, Expect Success

VIDEO LECTURE:-
It does not matter whether you are a beginner or not, our video lectures will help you guide throughout the whole subject that you are looking for. Video lectures are often descriptive and helps us to fathom it meticulously. Learn from our video lectures encapsulated in a frame by video camera on your devices on the go. 

LECTURE NOTES:-
Too find the best possible note in every semester is a problem that most of the students face often. We offer you the best possible notes irrespective of subjects which will help you achieve something throughout your academic career. 

DISCUSSION FORUM:-
Got any doubts? Not sure of something? Need to ask something? No need to get worried of; as we offer you a complete separate and immaculate section where you can post your doubts and expect a feasible solution within a short span of time from ur members. similarly you will be able to answer to someone else's question if you know the proper solution to the problem. 

WRITING BLOGS:-
Someone has said,"The secret of getting ahead is getting started." Everyone loves to get famous, to make their own identity and to be known by their own name. We bring you the oppurtunity to let your hidden talent unveal in front of the world and show them what have you got. The easiest way to make your identity is to write a blog. So without delaying choose a topic and start Blogging. 


CONTENTS OF VIDEO LECTURES:-
Visuals more treatful to eyes rather than letters imprinted on paper. We often need some descriptive ways to undderstand a lesson rather than some shortcuts. We provide videos of different subject which is arranged chapterwise for ease of access. Our videos contain meticulous data and covers in depth of the chapter. We believe in 3Qs' which are Quality, Quantity and Quick Service. We believe," Quality Matters" and  we are working hard to make the video experience smoother. We often love to reach out to you when in need in order to make your stay impeccable on our website so that you will visit us again. So do let us know where we were best and where we still need to improve. 



CONTENTS OF LECTUTRE NOTES:-
Every semester students are introduced with some new subjects and it always become a need of tyhe hour to find the effective notes in prder to score well in the academics. But here in Paathsala we have got your subjects covered. Our skilled teachers are always ready to provide you with some great contents that might be of a great help in semester. The notes are well described and can be accessed at any moment of the day. We provide the access at any hour of the day irrespective of time which makes it easier of being availed. So we need you to reach out to our contents and enjoy it without any hassle.  


Date:-28/10/2018
reviews:-

Rituraj Mishra:-
"I've been looking for a website where i could find all my notes and happy to see that this wewbsite really provides al  those at one place in a sorted manner. A perfect ONE-STOP solution for the students."

Shaplin Mishra:-
"The website is pretty impressive. We can access to the notes very easily without any hassles. Alongwith that the typingmaster is really fun to play with."

Anjali Barik:-
"Being a blogger it has always been my wish to start my own blog, but I had no idea how to start it. With the help of this website i can definitely say that writing blogs has never been easy. Loved this website."

Abhipsha Sahoo:-
"We find the best possible notes for thje semester at one place which saves a lot of time. Apart from that really loved the concept of sharing project ideas. It helps us to get some idea about how to start a project. Happy with the website."

Nahid Anzum:-
"The UI of the website is really impressive. It has been kept simple for the users to use without any hassle. The novel collection is intriguing. Keep up guys."


BLOGS:-

Anjali Barik:-
Are You a Social Media Addict? You May Be One Without Even Knowing It

Social networking addiction is an umbrella term that is used to refer to an individual who spends too much time using forms of social media like Facebook and Twitter.
There are more than two billion social media users worldwide, representing a global rate of around 28% of total digital users.

In India, the documented number of social media users approximate to 168 million users in 2016. Social networking already accounts for 28 percent of all media time spent online, and users aged between 15 and 19 spend at least three hours per day on average using platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram- across the globe.
And 18% of social media users can’t go a few hours without checking different social media platforms before getting up in the morning.
This is popularly known as FOMO or Fear Of Missing Out – a term for the addictive use of social media.

Social networking addiction is an umbrella term that is used to refer to an individual who spends too much time using forms of social media like Facebook and Twitter to such an extent that it interferes with other aspects of daily life, disrupts regular routines and disturbs interpersonal relationships.
For example, while viewing others lives on social media, we tend to make a note of the contrasts and make comparisons between their (apparently) perfectly presented lives and our life. This leads to lower self-esteem, which in turn increases the risk of depressive symptoms, anxiety and other unhealthy feelings and behaviours.

Another main problem linked to social media usage is cyberbullying, which is more common in the youth with 42% users reporting that they have been victims of cyber-bullying.
What is alarming to see is that hospitals have had admissions with cases of internet addiction and bare minimum intervention to treat the same.
The bane of social media cannot be eradicated by a ban (keeping in mind also the benefits that social media provides). But there can be several measures that can be implemented on an individual and supervisionary level to keep social media usage in check.

We can turn around the negative impacts of social media addiction into positive ones and make the usage of social media healthy by subscribing and participating in communities that are supportive and educational, seek out information and insights to know more of the world around you and foster goodwill, empathy and support.


Bhabani Sankar Tarai:-
How Much is Too Much: Is Your Love of Gaming a Mental Disorder?

When the WHO recently classified excessive playing of video games as a mental health condition, there were opposing reactions. The statement confirmed fears of parents across the world, while critics felt it was stigmatising.
Video games, smartphone games, tablets, and computers have been a common form of leisure in recent years. Figures given by experts (WHO) say that games are played by more than two-thirds of the population, including children, adolescents and a substantial number of adults.

In the current revision to the disease classification manual, the United Nation’s health agency, the World Health Organisation, confirmed that compulsively playing video games will now be qualified as a mental health condition as mentioned in the medical express. This statement has confirmed the fear of many parents, and also led critics to disagree that this is stigmatising.Dr Shekhar Saxena, Director of WHO’s Department for Mental Health and Substance Abuse believes that up to 3% of all gamers are affected by it.

Asking various gamers if it’s possible to get hooked to a game, people have varying responses. They may have had experiences where while playing the World of Warcraft, they might have had to pee in a can so that they can continue playing without disruption.

But can we consider that a diagnosable disorder? No.

Therefore, a standard set of criteria has been given by the ICD which states three main diagnostic features of the gaming disorder (WHO):

    One is that the gaming behaviour takes so much precedence over other activities that they are shifted to the periphery.
    The second feature is the impaired control of these behaviours. Even when negative consequence occurs, this gaming behaviour continues or escalates.
    And the third feature is significant distress and impairment in personal, family, social, educational or occupational functioning.
For gaming disorders to be diagnosed, the pattern of behaviour must last at least 12 months. An episode of few hours or days isn’t qualified.

Agreeing with the point made, it will be a difficult task to identify who is addicted and can be diagnosed with Gaming disorder versus who is not addicted. There are people who play video games for more than eight hours per day and still manage to have a happy family and a successful work life.

But how much is too much?

Manoj Dash:-

Hyderabad Doctors Launch ‘Cloud Kitchen’ To Home-Deliver Healthy Meals!

Imagine having healthy, home-cooked food delivered at your work-desk, at the same time every day.

Wouldn’t that make your life simpler?
This is the promise of a unique ‘cloud kitchen’ concept, by a bunch of entrepreneurs in Hyderabad, reports The Hindu.
Dr Suresh Kamireddy, a general practitioner who launched QuriosEATY, a food chain, told The Hindu, “We realised that many people don’t have time to cook and they order food from restaurants or small eateries. We did market research and realised that there is a big scope for healthy and balanced diet if it can be delivered at home or office.”
The other ‘big kitchen’ concepts in Hyderabad have been aimed at corporates and the B2B segment, while QuriosEATY plans to crack the B2C segment.

Dr Kamireddy added, “We are slotting ourselves in the on-demand order and online subscription-based food delivery segment. Since we are a bunch of doctors, we have ensured that (the) nutrition and health requirements of our customers are taken care of.”
The health food startup scene has seen quite a flurry of activity in the recent past, with people becoming more aware of the dangers of ordering fast, fried and unhealthy food. There are a lot of initiatives that provide people with a healthy meal, at a reasonable price during the workday.
Take for instance, Healthie, started by serial entrepreneur Rajesh Sawhney in 2017, it is currently delivering in Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Hyderabad. According to Yourstory, the startup serves up healthy meals that have an Indian touch for the urban lot.
Or, Purple Basil, started by self-proclaimed foodies and husband-wife duo Dhananjai Raja Kuttad and Rashmi Ghale in 2016. The Bengaluru-based initiative is an online healthy food delivery startup that targets two customer groups – those who want to eat healthy and tasty food, and those who are fitness conscious and want to address the food part in their fitness regime.
Yustrength is another health food delivery startup in Mumbai that boasts of clients like Sonakshi Sinha and Bobby Deol. Providing healthy and tasty meals on a subscription model, it offers daily, weekly or monthly subscriptions, personalised for each customer and different from the ones available online for home delivery.

Well, all set to start in about five days and 19 hours, QuriosEATY is all set to revolutionise the food delivered to your desk.

So, say goodbye to quick fix unhealthy meals, and dig into nutritious health food in Hyderabad, delivered at your convenience, thanks to QuriosEATY.

Shreya Dash:-

With 35,000 ‘Air Purifying’ Plants, Delhi Airport Goes Natural to Combat Pollution!

Besides uplifting the aesthetics of the place, these plants have been meticulously chosen for their natural ability to clear the air of basic pollutants.
The next time, you walk into Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport, don’t be surprised to see that it has been spruced up extensively with plants!

The air-purifying greenery includes plants and flowering trees like cassia fistula, asltonia scholaris, spider plants, snake plants, golden pothos, weeping fig, jacaranda mimosifolia, and bamboo palm that are scientifically known to provide natural air purification.
In a bid to naturally moderate temperatures in a hot region like the national capital, prevent water wastage and more crucially, tackle indoor air pollution, the airport authorities recently placed almost 35,000 ‘air purifying’ plants across the premises of IGI.
According to a report by the Times of India, an area of roughly 3.9 million sq. ft. within the IGI airport is now covered with plants and shrubs. The Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which is the airport operator, also mentioned that in addition to maintaining the already existing ones, the airport intends to keep adding thousands of plants every year.

“We have been working towards reducing the adverse effects of pollution. For this, we have taken various initiatives to improve the air quality management and emission reduction at the Delhi Airport. We have extensively planted air purifying plants and trees inside and outside the terminals of Delhi Airport, which has significantly improved the air quality at the airport and its vicinity. The air quality at the airport is also regularly monitored by various authorities,” said a DIAL spokesperson.

The Delhi airport currently holds a spot among the top 20 busiest airports in the world, and this move could play a significant role in motivating close to 65 million people, who chart flights from the airport on an annual basis, to plant trees or grow plants in their homes and help reduce air pollution.


